2016 Election

What type of attack was this?
One type of attack was via Phishing. DNC campaign chairman John Podesta, receives a phishing eamil, clicks on it and changes his password. This then allows hackers to be able to access his emails. This was only one form of an attack towards the DNC campaign. Lost of others occurs with success. 

How was the vulnerability discovered?
The FBI contacted the campaign several times warning them their computers had been compromised by Russian hackers. Crowdstrike, a cybersecurity firm hired by the DNC committee that they had found that the campaign computers had been compromised. 

How were the attackers able to exploit the vulnerability?
The attackers were able to wait until someone made a mistake to be able to get it. It was not hard as mistakes that could have easily been avoided were made. 

Were there security measures that could have been taken in order to prevent this attack?
Yes, in terms of Phishing emails for example, the campaign staff should have been trained not to click on any emails that look suspiscios. They should have reported any email that looked funky. In my company, we are trained daily on Phishing, Spear-Phishing and so on. We dont click on anything that comes from someone we don't know. Even when we do know the person, we check to see that the email address is correct. As all emails consist of first name, followed by a dot, followed by last @everestre.com. We are instructed to no click on any links within an email unless we have checked all parameters and they match. If we are suspiscious, we should first IM the person and ask if they sent us something and give them a briefing. It has reduced the amount of attacks significantly in my company. Simple awareness brought to the staff could have made a huge difference. 

In addition, the DNC should have really forsaw that this is a legitimate problem and ongoing. They should have better prepared themselves and not have been as vulnerable during the election. We shall see what is to come of the next election. Especially with AI now involved in the mix. Should be very interesting. 
